VISITOR PLATFORM

A simple glass structure rises behind the Hönggenberg, as if it wants to take over the airspace.

Visible already from the A1 motorway, the "Visitor Platform" positions itself in the middle of the horizon, becoming a magnet.

Space and Structure

The roof of the "Visitor Platform" is held up by four diagonally braced steel trusses extending from the outer support layer of the existing building into the sky.

At the coffered roof, which provides horizontal bracing for the trussed structures, the floor slab of the "Visitor Platform" is suspended using steel cables.

These steel cables are drawn through a large concrete core on one side and guided through a glassed inner courtyard on the other side.

The concrete core and the offset inner courtyard divide the "Visitor Platform" into various "Open Spaces": Reception, Science Club Bar, Science Club Lounge, Banquet A + B, served Restaurant, and Self-Service Restaurant.

ACADEMIC GUEST HOUSE

The "Academic Guest House," which accommodates 20 hotel rooms and 12 apartments, deliberately holds back to give precedence to the "Visitor Platform."

By hiding behind the diagonally intersecting steel braces, the building creates a sense of intimacy for the individual rooms.

Although the house is relatively small and compact, the hotel rooms and apartments appear flexible, spacious, and elegant.

On the rooftop terrace with the small summer bar, you stand under the freely floating "Visitor Platform," right in the middle of the Zurich panorama with a 360° view.

Materials

The facade of the "Academic Guest House" consists of approximately 160 white enameled steel frame windows and prefabricated white concrete panels (35 x 40 cm), which are mounted onto the main structure.

The guest house ends with a white enameled steel crown on the rooftop terrace.

The rooftop terrace floor consists of lashed larch planks.

Structure

The structure of the "Academic Guest House" is made of steel columns and beams that transfer vertical loads to the inner support layer of the existing building.

The torsional forces are absorbed by the elevator shaft and the concrete corner panels.

Building Services

The "Academic Guest House" is naturally ventilated and therefore does not need an air conditioning system, unlike the "Visitor Platform."

In the base of the guest house, which is completely renovated, there are offices and building services installations.

Through the slightly enlarged concrete core, the building services lines are routed from the base floor of the guest house to the "Visitor Platform."
